Add 11.6 release notes (#183)
mondoohq/docs: releases/2024-05-28-mondoo-11.6-is-out.md

---
slug: mondoo-11.6-is-out/
title: Mondoo 11.6 is out!
description: Announcing the 11.6 release of Mondoo, with AWS CloudFormation template scanning, expanded platform support, updated CIS content, and more!
author: Tim Smith
author_title: Mondoo Core Team
author_url: https://github.com/tas50
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

## 🥳 Mondoo 11.6 is out! This release includes AWS CloudFormation template scanning, expanded platform support, updated CIS content, and more!

Get this release: [Installation Docs](https://mondoo.com/docs/cnspec/) | [Package Downloads](https://releases.mondoo.com/cnspec/) | [Docker Container](https://hub.docker.com/r/mondoo/cnspec)

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

### AWS CloudFormation and SAM template scanning

> Catch security issues before they reach production with scanning of JSON and YAML formatted CloudFormation templates and SAM templates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Catch security issues before they reach production with scanning of JSON and YAML formatted CloudFormation templates and Serverless Application Model (SAM) templates.
```

      }
      sa-east-1: {
        AMI: "ami-07b14488da8ea02a0"
      }
      us-east-1: {
        AMI: "ami-0ff8a91507f77f867"
      }
      us-west-1: {
        AMI: "ami-0bdb828fd58c52235"
      }
      us-west-2: {
        AMI: "ami-a0cfeed8"
      }
    }
  }
  parameters: {
    EnvType: {
      AllowedValues: [
        0: "prod"
        1: "dev"
        2: "test"
      ]
      ConstraintDescription: "must specify prod, dev, or test."
      Default: "test"
      Description: "Environment type."
      Type: "String"
    }
  }
  resources: [
    0: cloudformation.resource name="EC2Instance"
    1: cloudformation.resource name="MountPoint"
    2: cloudformation.resource name="NewVolume"
  ]
  globals: {}
  metadata: {}
  conditions: {
    CreateDevResources: {
      Fn::Equals: [
        0: {
          Ref: "EnvType"
        }
        1: "dev"
      ]
    }
    CreateProdResources: {
      Fn::Equals: [
        0: {
          Ref: "EnvType"
        }
        1: "prod"
      ]
    }
  }
  description: ""
  types: [
    0: "AWS::EC2::Instance"
    1: "AWS::EC2::VolumeAttachment"
    2: "AWS::EC2::Volume"
  ]
  transform: null
  outputs: []
  version: "2010-09-09"
}
```

> Stay tuned for expanded CloudFormation support in Mondoo including detection of templates in GitHub/GitLab repositories and out of the box security policy support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Stay tuned for expanded CloudFormation support in Mondoo including detection of templates in GitHub and GitLab repositories and out-of-the-box security policy support.
```
because it comes before what it describes

## 🧹 IMPROVEMENTS

### Updated CIS Benchmark policies

Secure your infrastructure with the latest CIS guidelines including new checks, improved remediation steps, and more reliable queries:

- CIS Amazon EKS Benchmark v1.5.0
- CIS Microsoft 365 Foundations Benchmark v3.1.0

### Alpine Linux 3.20 support

Keep your container applications secure with EOL and CVE detection support for [Alpine Linux 3.20](https://alpinelinux.org/posts/Alpine-3.20.0-released.html)

### Fedora 41 CVE detection support

> The Fedora 41 development process is just getting started, but if you're on the bleeding edge Mondoo is ready with EOL and CVE detection support for this upcoming Fedora release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Fedora 41 development process is just getting started. But if you're on the bleeding edge, Mondoo is ready with EOL and CVE detection support for this upcoming Fedora release.
```

### Improved Arista EOS support

It's time to dust off your old Network+ certification and get busy with improved Arista support in Mondoo:

- Find your devices quickly with grouping under "Network Devices" in the inventory list page
- Understand what you're looking at with FQDN and model number information on the asset overview
- Explore system configuration with improved resource default values in `cnquery shell`

> ### Resource improvements
> 
> #### aws.sqs.queues
> 
> - New resource for [Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) queues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### New resource: aws.sqs.queues

We added a resource for [Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) queues
```

## 🐛 BUG FIXES AND UPDATES

- Prevent the `tls.ciphers` resource from hanging if the server returns a [Hello Retry Request](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8446#section-4.1.4).
- Improve reliability of TLS scans by using a secp256r1 curve in the hello, which some servers require.
- Scan all images in Amazon ECR registries, not just those with tags.
- Improve rendering of CVEs with short descriptions.
- Don't show the "Copy Table" button on the Asset Software tab when there is no table shown.

> - Ensure HTTP Security do not apply to non-host systems that include a TLS certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure HTTP Security does not apply to non-host systems that include a TLS certificate.
```

- Fix incorrect CVE pagination on assets.

> - Fix display of remote code exploitation risk badges

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix display of remote code exploitation risk badges.
```

- Improve risk factor names for clarity.
- Fix display of tool tips in light mode.

> - Fix sorting of CVEs and Advisories in the Assets pages.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fix sorting of CVEs and advisories on the Assets pages.
```

> - Improve reliability and memory usage in `Ensure local interactive user dot files access is configured gen` CIS Linux policy check.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Improve reliability and memory usage in the `Ensure local interactive user dot files access is configured gen` CIS Linux policy check.
```

---
slug: mondoo-11.6-is-out/
title: Mondoo 11.6 is out!

> description: Announcing the 11.6 release of Mondoo, with AWS CloudFormation template scanning, Terraform plan discover in GitHub, updated CIS content, and more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Announcing the 11.6 release of Mondoo, with AWS CloudFormation template scanning, Terraform plan discovery in GitHub, updated CIS content, and more!
```

author: Tim Smith
author_title: Mondoo Core Team
author_url: https://github.com/tas50
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

> ## 🥳 Mondoo 11.6 is out! This release includes AWS CloudFormation template scanning, Terraform plan discover in GitHub, updated CIS content, and more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 🥳 Mondoo 11.6 is out! This release includes AWS CloudFormation template scanning, Terraform plan discovery in GitHub, updated CIS content, and more!
```

        AMI: "ami-a0cfeed8"
      }
    }
  }
  parameters: {
    EnvType: {
      AllowedValues: [
        0: "prod"
        1: "dev"
        2: "test"
      ]
      ConstraintDescription: "must specify prod, dev, or test."
      Default: "test"
      Description: "Environment type."
      Type: "String"
    }
  }
  resources: [
    0: cloudformation.resource name="EC2Instance"
    1: cloudformation.resource name="MountPoint"
    2: cloudformation.resource name="NewVolume"
  ]
  globals: {}
  metadata: {}
  conditions: {
    CreateDevResources: {
      Fn::Equals: [
        0: {
          Ref: "EnvType"
        }
        1: "dev"
      ]
    }
    CreateProdResources: {
      Fn::Equals: [
        0: {
          Ref: "EnvType"
        }
        1: "prod"
      ]
    }
  }
  description: ""
  types: [
    0: "AWS::EC2::Instance"
    1: "AWS::EC2::VolumeAttachment"
    2: "AWS::EC2::Volume"
  ]
  transform: null
  outputs: []
  version: "2010-09-09"
}
```

Stay tuned for expanded CloudFormation support in Mondoo including detection of templates in GitHub and GitLab repositories and out-of-the-box security policy support.

### Discover Terraform plans in GitHub repositories

> Not sure where your IaC code lives? Now it doesn't matter with automatic Terraform plan file disovery in GitHub repositories. Scan your entire organization and Mondoo will do the heavy lifting to find and scan each file automatically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Not sure where your IaC code lives? With automatic Terraform plan file discovery in GitHub repositories, it doesn't matter. Scan your entire organization and let Mondoo do the heavy lifting: It automatically finds and scans each file.
```

### Improved Arista EOS support

It's time to dust off your old Network+ certification and get busy with improved Arista support in Mondoo:

- Find your devices quickly with grouping under "Network Devices" in the inventory list page
- Understand what you're looking at with FQDN and model number information on the asset overview
- Explore system configuration with improved resource default values in `cnquery shell`

### New resource: aws.sqs.queues

We added a resource for [Amazon Simple Queue Service (SQS)](https://aws.amazon.com/sqs/) queues

## 🐛 BUG FIXES AND UPDATES

- Prevent the `tls.ciphers` resource from hanging if the server returns a [Hello Retry Request](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc8446#section-4.1.4).
- Improve reliability of TLS scans by using a secp256r1 curve in the hello, which some servers require.
- Scan all images in Amazon ECR registries, not just those with tags.
- Improve rendering of CVEs with short descriptions.
- Don't show the "Copy Table" button on the Asset Software tab when there is no table shown.

> - Ensure HTTP Security does not apply to non-host systems that include a TLS certificate.

Reviewer: What is HTTP Security in this case? Is it a check? A policy?

Author: It's a policy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensure HTTP Security policy does not apply to non-host systems that include a TLS certificate.
```

---
slug: mondoo-11.6-is-out/
title: Mondoo 11.6 is out!
description: Announcing the 11.6 release of Mondoo, with AWS Cloudformation template scanning, BAR, BAZ, and more!
author: Tim Smith
author_title: Mondoo Core Team
author_url: https://github.com/tas50
tags: [release, mondoo]
---

> ## 🥳 Mondoo 11.6 is out! This release includes AWS Cloudformation template scanning, BAR, BAZ, and more!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## 🥳 Mondoo 11.6 is out! This release includes AWS CloudFormation template scanning, BAR, BAZ, and more!
```

Get this release: [Installation Docs](https://mondoo.com/docs/cnspec/) | [Package Downloads](https://releases.mondoo.com/cnspec/) | [Docker Container](https://hub.docker.com/r/mondoo/cnspec)

---

## 🎉 NEW FEATURES

> ### AWS Cloudformation template scanning

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### AWS CloudFormation template scanning
```

In case I forget later!
